Hi, everybody.
For decades, too many
working Americans went
without the security of
health insurance -- and
their financial well-being
suffered because of it.
We've begun to change that.
As the Affordable Care
Act has taken effect,
we've covered 17.6
million Americans.
Since 2010, the uninsured
rate has decreased by 45%.
And for the first time, more
than 90% of Americans
are covered.
If you haven't
gotten covered yet,
or if you care about someone
who hasn't gotten covered
yet, now's your chance.
It's open enrollment season
for
the Health Insurance Marketplace.
What that means is,
with a few clicks on
HealthCare.gov, you'll find
private insurance companies
competing for your business.
You can compare plans and
choose the one that's right
for your family.
In fact, most Americans will
find an option that costs
less than $75 a month.
Even if you already have
insurance through
the Marketplace, check it out.
Shopping around can save you
a lot of money -- last year,
consumers who shopped
saved almost $400.
Take the story of a
man named Phil Viso,
who emailed me
earlier this year.
Phil's a software developer
from my hometown of Chicago.
Last winter, he had an idea
for a new app and decided to
start his own company.
And that can be scary when
you need to get
your own health insurance.
But Phil logged on
to HealthCare.gov,
answered a few
questions, picked a plan,
and even found out he was
eligible for a tax credit
that saved him money.
Here's what he wrote: "I'm
still sort of in shock about
how great the experience of
signing up for health care
was...I will have a lot to
worry about over the course
of the year as I try
to get my app released,
but thankfully, good health
care will not be one of
those worries."
After he sent me that email,
Phil ended up getting a new
and better job anyway.
But that's the whole
point of health insurance.
Peace of mind.
And under the
Affordable Care Act,
if you want to change
jobs, go back to school,
or chase that new idea, you
can do it without worrying
about going broke
if you get sick.
If you've got a pre-existing
condition -- diabetes or
cancer or heartburn or a
heart attack -- you can no
longer be charged more
or denied coverage.
You can no longer be charged
more just for being a woman.
And preventive care like
checkups and immunizations
now come with no additional
out-of-pocket costs.
What we're talking about
is no longer just a law,
and it's certainly not the
myths and scare tactics that
the cynics have peddled
our way for years.
This is reality.
This is health
care in America.
And the bottom line
is, Americans like it.
They're happy with their plans
and they are happy with their premiums.
So join them.
Give it a shot.
Check out HealthCare.gov,
CuidadoDeSalud.gov,
or call 1-800-318-2596 to
find a plan that's right for
you or someone
you care about.
And by the way -- if you
live in one of the 20 cities
participating in our Healthy
Communities Challenge,
I want to see how many of
your neighbors
you can get signed up.
I'll come visit the city
that enrolls the highest
percentage of folks who
aren't covered right now.
That's a promise.
After all, this country is
at its best when we look out
for each other.
And together, we can help
more Americans get the
security that they and
their families deserve.
Thanks everybody.
Have a great weekend.